# ARGOVision × POLIMI: anomaly detection in the industry

In this workshop we will investigate the usage of a well-kown anomaly detection technique known in literature with the name of `PatchCore`.

## TOC

1. [Requirements](#requirements)
1. [Workspace setup](#workspace-setup)
1. [Workspace description](#workspace-description)
1. [Useful info](#useful-info)
1. [Tasks](#tasks)

## Requirements

To the aim of use this repo you need to:

- install both `docker` and `docker-compose`;
- download the dataset from [here](https://www.mydrive.ch/shares/38536/3830184030e49fe74747669442f0f282/download/420938113-1629952094/mvtec_anomaly_detection.tar.xz) or from the [official site](https://www.mvtec.com/company/research/datasets/mvtec-ad) (registration is required);
- Download the pre-trained models (one for each category) using [this link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vhuN7mZi19arK6WB6Ri3lvDGax4I14WS/view?usp=share_link).

## Workspace setup

0. Check that `docker` and `docker-compose` are installed and correctly working:

    ```sh
    docker --version
    docker compose version
    ```

1. Copy the downloaded (and extracted) dataset in the `work` folder;

1. Build and run the Docker image:

    ```sh
    docker compose up
    ```

    The provided `docker-compose.yaml` starts a `jupyter` service, you can connect to that service using the browser and the link provided at startup.

    NOTE: in case of errors during the environment creation (via pipenv), the solution is to install the environment from scratch instead of syncing it. To this aim apply the following changes:

    - Change the `Dockerfile` substituting:

        ```
        COPY Pipfile Pipfile.lock .
        ...
        RUN pipenv sync
        ```

        with: 

        ```
        COPY Pipfile .
        ...
        RUN pipenv install
        ```

1. Copy the downloaded (and extracted) models in the `work` folder;

1. Copy-paste the `jupyter` access link in a browser.
    The right link to use is the one pointing to `localhost` (eg., `http://127.0.0.1:8888/tree?token=XXXX`)

## Workspace description

Once the environment setup is completed, you will have the mounted `work` folder to interact with the Docker machine and persist your work.
After the first machine start-up you will fnd in that folder the cloned `PatchCore` repository.
To solve the proposed tasks, you will need to check the structure, usage, and eventually change the content of that repository.

## Useful info

The repository scripts (defined in the `bin` folder), are expected to use the GPU by default.
Being these Docker machine unable to access the GPU, to run the experiments using just the CPU it is enough to change the `--gpu` parameter in the needed scripts, setting as default an empty list (`[]`).

### Utility

To make easier the execution of python scripts in the Jupyter notebook, we suggest to use the utilities defined in `/work/utils.py`.

- Example 1: execution of a training process:

    ```python
    from bin.run_patchcore import main as trainer

    with commandline_args(*get_train_args(...)):
        try:
            trainer()
        except SystemExit:
            print("Done.")
    ```

- Example 2: execute a model evaluation:

    ```python
    from bin.load_and_evaluate_patchcore import main as evaluator

    with commandline_args(*get_evaluate_args(...)):
        try:
            evaluator()
        except SystemExit:
            print("Done.")
    ```

Moreover, we suggest to start the work using the notebook `workshop.ipynb`. Some prebuilt utilities are available there.

## Tasks

1. Execute a training (also called `fitting`) using the `PatchCore` algorithm. Choose arbitrarily the categories and the image size.

1. Execute an evaluation (using the evaluation script) using the `PatchCore` algorithm. Use the models obtained at the end of the previous step.

1. Generate a score distribution over all the available classes:
    - Use the results (results.csv) obtained from the model `step1/0000` in the `experiments` folder.
    - All the models have been trained using an image size equal to 224x224.

1. Generate the anomaly masks on test images related to one of the available categories:
    - Change the script code so that the predictions, the ground-truth (pixelwise and imagewise), image names and anomaly threshold, all were saved in a file to make them available after the evaluation.
    - Execute an evaluation using a pre-trained model, generating the file with the saaved data for one category.
    - Plot the histograms related to the pixelwise and imagewise scorse, comparing the score of images containing anomalies with those of images without anomalies.
        - In the pixelwise case, add to the plot the optimal threshold selected by the algorithm.

1. Identify the category with worst performances using the results generated by the pre-trained model in the previous steps:
    - Sort the examples in the worst category with respect to one of the available metrics.
    - Identify N worst examples (a small number, just to see them, say 3).
    - Plot the found examples showing: the original image, the anomaly mask, the binarized anomaly mask, the ground-truth mask.

1. Repeat the previous step selecting the the best category and the best examples.

1. Train the anomaly detection models for different image sizes in a selected range:
    - select some categories;
    - generate a plot showing the metric variation with respect to the image size change.

NOTE: Select the number of categories and the image sizes depending on available resources and time.

